DOCSP-29313: Adding connection troubleshooting guide (#372)
mongodb/docs-java: source/connection-troubleshooting.txt

.. _java-connection-troubleshooting:

================================
Connection Troubleshooting Guide
================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This page examines common issues and offers potential solutions if you have

> trouble connecting to a MongoDB instance or replica set using the

Author: Rewording to remove the case of using since the section you linked to also said to avoid using "with".

``27017``, but you can configure MongoDB to communicate on another port.

Authentication Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When attempting to connect to a MongoDB instance, the connection can fail if
the authorization is not correctly configured. This often results in an error
message similar to the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Command failed with error 18 (AuthenticationFailed): 'Authentication failed.' on server localhost:27017.

If you receive this error, try the following methods to resolve this issue.

.. _java-connection-string-auth:

Check Connection String
-----------------------

The most common issue when attempting to connect to MongoDB is an invalid
connection string. For more information about using connection
strings with the Java driver, see :ref:`Connection URI <connection-uri>` in the
Connection Guide.

If your MongoDB deployment requires authentication, your connection string
might require including a username and password.

.. note::

   If the username or password includes the following characters:

   .. code-block:: none

      : / ? # [ ] @

   those characters must be converted using `percent encoding

>    <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.1>`__.

Author: For what it's worth - this was copied from another topic. Is it worth creating a ticket to update the other topic(s) it is in? (I don't remember the topics off hand, I would need to find them again).

string by using the :ref:`Connect to MongoDB Atlas <connect-atlas-java-driver>`
code example. Make sure to replace the connection string in the example.

When connecting to a replica set, you should include all of the hosts
in the replica set in your connection string. Separate each of the hosts
in the connection string with a comma. This enables the driver to establish a
connection if one of the hosts is unreachable.

.. _java-connection-admin:

Verify User is in ``admin`` Database
------------------------------------

When connecting with authentication, you need to specify the username and
password when attempting to connect to the MongoDB deployment. If you have
verified that the connection string is accurate, your user might not be defined
in the ``admin`` database.

You can create users for each database in your collection. By default,
MongoDB uses the ``admin`` database for authentication. If your user is defined
in a different database, the driver will return an error when attempting to
connect.

You could also change the ``authSource`` in the connection string to point to
the database where the user is defined.

Error Sending Message
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When the driver is unable to send a message, it often responds with the

Author: This is one of those weird cases where this is our catch all error message. However, there are other more specific error messages that could be sent if the driver errors out when sending a command. So, there are specific cases where it wouldn't, but they are too specific and low-level to get into. That's why I went with often, because it is accurate but is not always the case.

following general error message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   com.mongodb.MongoSocketWriteException: Exception sending message

If you receive this error, try the following methods to resolve this issue.

Check Connection String
-----------------------

One of the first things to check is to verify that the connection string in
your app is accurate. This is described under :ref:`Connection Error <java-connection-string-port>`
and :ref:`Authentication Error <java-connection-string-auth>`.

Verify User is in ``admin`` Database
------------------------------------

The user you are using to send the message needs to be recognized in your

> authentication database. This is described under :ref:`Authentication

Author: No, it is the same user, just using different wording but that adds confusion.

Error <java-connection-admin>.

Configure Firewall
------------------

The firewall needs to be open to receiving messages. This is described under
:ref:`Connection Error <java-connection-firewall>`.

.. _java-connection-number-connections:

Check the Number of Connections
-------------------------------

Each ``MongoClient`` instance supports a maximum number of concurrent open
connections in its connection pool. This is defined by the ``maxPoolSize``
configuration parameter. By default, this is set to ``100``. If there are already a
number of open connections equal to ``maxPoolSize``, the server will wait until
a connection becomes available. If this wait time exceeds the ``maxIdleTimeMS``
value, the driver will respond with an error.

.. _java-connection-certificate:

Install Certificate
-------------------

> If you are using Java version 8 or earlier, you may need to manually add a

Reviewer: I: ["may" = permission](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-may)

```suggestion
If you are using Java version 8 or earlier, you might need to manually add a
```

> certificate to your trust store. Either use a more recent version of the JDK
> or see our `Security FAQ
> <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/faq/security/#java-users>`__ for
> information about how to add the certificate.

Reviewer: S: This feels a little...snippy? Haha!

```suggestion
certificate to your trust store. You can either upgrade to a later version of the JDK
or see our `Security FAQ
<https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/faq/security/#java-users>`__ for
information about how to add the certificate.
```

Timeout Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes when you send messages through the driver to the server, the messages
take a while to respond. When this happens, you might receive an error message
similar to one of the following error messages:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Timed out after 30000 ms while waiting for a server that matches ReadPreferenceServerSelector{readPreference=primary}.

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   No server chosen by ReadPreferenceServerSelector{readPreference=primary} from cluster description

If you receive one of these errors, try the following methods to resolve this
issue.

Set ``maxConnectionTimeoutMS``
------------------------------

> Try setting the value of ``maxConnectionTimeoutMS``. This
> option indicates the amount of time the Java driver waits for a connection
> before timing out. By default, the value is 10000. You can increase this value
> or set it to ``0`` if you want the driver to never timeout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``maxConnectionTimeoutMS`` option indicates the amount of time 
the Java driver waits for a connection
before timing out. By default, the value is ``10000``. You can increase this value
or set it to ``0`` if you want the driver to never timeout.
```
